.TH lhsmtool_tsm 1 "January 2020" Lustre "user utilities"
.SH NAME
lhsmtool_tsm \- Lustre copytool for TSM storage
.SH SYNOPSIS
lhsmtool_tsm [\fIOPTION\fR]... LUSTRE_MOUNT_POINT
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS
.BR OPTIONS:
Mandatory arguments of long options are mandatory for short options
.PP
REQUIRED
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-node =\fINAME\fR
The name of the TSM node which is registered on the TSM server.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-password =\fIPASSWORD\fR
The password of the TSM node which is registered on the TSM server.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-servername =\fINAME\fR
The TSM servername to connect to. Name will be resolved to an actual ip address within the dsm.sys file.
.PP
OPTIONAL
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-archive-id =\fIID\fR
Lustre HSM can manage multiple archive backends. Archive backends are specified by an unique and persistent identifier (called archive-id).
Note, archive-id = 0 is reserved for handling any archive id's in the range 1,2,...,32 and is used as default when no archive-id option is provided.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-owner =\fINAME\fR
If in archive mode the owner's name  will be stored with the file objects onto the TSM server. By default an empty string is used.
Otherwise the name will be used to filter the queries by owner and the wildcards '*' or '?' are allowed. By default all owners will be selected.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-threads =\fICOUNT\fR
For employing multi-thread processing of HSM action items, a single producer - multiple consumer
architecture is implemented. A single producer inserts HSM action items into a queue, the multiple
consumers dequeue the items and execute the corresponding TSM actions such as archive, retrieve
and delete. The number of consumer threads is specified by this option, default is 1. Note,
it is necessary to set the same or even greater value on the TSM server with command:
update node <NODENAME> maxnummp=\fICOUNT\fR, otherwise the TSM server will reply with
error message: "This node has exceeded its maximum number of mount points" and will fail
in processing the HSM action items. The maximum number of feasible threads can be inferred with option \fB\-\-enable-maxmpc\fR.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-conf =\fIFILE\fR
Read conf \fIFILE\fR with options: \fIservername\fR, \fInode\fR, \fIowner\fR, \fIpassword\fR, \fIarchive-id\fR, \fIthreads\fR and \fIverbose\fR.
Syntax in conf \fIFILE\fR is \fIoption\fR \fIvalue\fR where separators are whitespace(s) and tabulator(s). The character # is treated as a comment and strings after character # are ignored.
.TP
.BR \-\-abort-on-error
Abort operation of major error.
.TP
.BR \-\-daemon
Daemon mode run in background.
.TP
.BR \-\-dry-run
Don't run. Just show what would be done.
.TP
.BR \-\-restore-stripe
Restore Lustre stripe information in retrieve.
.TP
.BR \-\-enable-maxmpc
Enable check to infer the maximum number of allowed mount points, that is the maximum number of feasible threads, by
sending DSM_OBJ_DIRECTORY and verifying whether transaction was successful.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose =\fIerror\fR|\fIwarn\fR|\fImessage\fR|\fIinfo\fR|\fIdebug\fR
Causes lhsmtool_tsm to be more verbose in printing messages. Default is \fImessage\fR.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help and exit.
.SS
.BR LUSTRE_MOUNT_POINT:
.PP
Directory where a Lustre filesystem is mounted at. This filesystem needs to have HSM functionality enabled. Note, the TSM filespace name is set to the LUSTRE_MOUNT_POINT.

.SH FILES
File 'dsm.sys' contains information to look up the tsm server. By default it is located at '/opt/tivoli/tsm/client/api/bin64/dsm.sys'.
It should contain at least the required options SERVERNAME, NODENAME and TCPSERVERADDRESS.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please report bugs to <http://github.com/tstibor/ltsm/issues>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2017 GSI Helmholtz Centre for Heavy Ion Research
.br
License GPLv2: GNU GPL version 2 <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH SEE ALSO
Github project at <http://github.com/tstibor/ltsm>
