.TH ltsmc 1 "September 2017" TSM "user utilities"
.SH NAME
ltsmc \- Console client for archiving, retrieving, deleting and querying files and directories on a TSM server
.SH SYNOPSIS
ltsmc \fIACTION\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... PATH
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS
.BR ACTIONS:
.TP
.BR \-\-archive
Archive files and directories on TSM server.
.TP
.BR \-\-query
Query TSM server for files and directories and print the result.
.TP
.BR \-\-retrieve
Query TSM server for files and directories, and retrieve matched files and directories for storing them locally.
.TP
.BR \-\-delete
Query TSM server for files and directories, and delete matched files and directories on the TSM server.
.TP
.BR \-\-pipe
Archive data coming from a pipe, e.g. echo "archive me" | ltsmc --pipe <OPTIONS> /archive.me
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-checksum
Calculate crc32 checksum of local files, for verifying that e.g. local and archives files
have equal crc32 checksums.
.SS
.BR OPTIONS:
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too except for verbose option.
.PP
REQUIRED
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-node =\fINAME\fR
The name of the TSM node which is registered on the TSM server.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-password =\fIPASSWORD\fR
The password of the TSM node which is registered on the TSM server.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-servername =\fINAME\fR
The TSM servername to connect to. Name will be resolved to an actual ip address within the dsm.sys file.
.PP
OPTIONAL
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-prefix
The directory prefix is the directory where all retrieved files and sub-directories will be saved to, i.e. the top of the retrieval tree. For example, --prefix '/tmp' assures that archived data stored at fs=/lustre/nyx,hl=/cs/turing,ll=/pub.tex is retrieved as file /tmp/lustre/nyx/cs/turing/pub.tex.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-recursive
Archive directory recursively by also processing each sub-directory.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-sort =\fIascending\fR|\fIdescending\fR|\fIrestore\fR
Query action will list archived objects sorted by date in \fIascending\fR or \fIdescending\fR order, or in optimal \fIrestore\fR order.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-latest
Query, restore and delete action will only select the latest version of the stored objects.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-fsname =\fIPATH\fR
Name of a file system, disk drive, or any other high-level qualifier that groups related data together, e.g. '/lustre'. The TSM filespace name is used for archiving, retrieving, querying and deleting and has default value '/'. Note the filespace name must start with character '/'.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-description =\fISTRING\fR
If in archive mode the description will be stored in association with the TSM objects onto the TSM server. By default an empty string is used.
Otherwise the description will be used to select only the query results matching the description before continuing with the actual action and can contain the wildcards '*' or '?'. By default any description '*' will be selected.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-owner =\fINAME\fR
If in archive mode the owner's name  will be stored with the file objects onto the TSM server. By default an empty string is used.
Otherwise the name will be used to filter the queries by owner and the wildcards '*' or '?' are allowed. By default all owners will be selected.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose =\fIerror\fR|\fIwarn\fR|\fImessage\fR|\fIinfo\fR|\fIdebug\fR
Causes ltsmc to be more verbose in printing messages. Default is \fImessage\fR.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help and exit.
.SS
.BR PATH:
.PP
If not in archive mode a TSM object description is expected. The description is split into the low-level (ll) name which reflects the actual file name and a high-level (hl) name which reflects the path.
This split will occur at the last occurency of the path seperator '/' in the string. In addition wildcard characters '*' and '?' can be used to match multiple TSM objects, e.g.:
.TP
PATH='*'
hl='/' and ll='*' \- matches any file in path '/'
.TP
PATH='*/*'
hl='*' and ll='/*' \- matches any file in any path
.TP
PATH='/home/user/files/test.txt'
hl='/home/user/files' and ll='/test.txt' \- matches single file
.TP
PATH='/home/user/*.txt'
hl="/home/user" and ll='/*.txt' \- matches any file ending with '.txt' in path '/home/user'
.TP
PATH='/home/*/files/??.txt'
hl='/home/*/files' and ll='/??.txt' \- matches all files with two characters and ending with '.txt' in all paths matching '/home/*/files'.
.PP
When in archive mode a path to an existing file or directory is required which should be stored on the tsm server. If path points to an directory all files in it will be archived. See additional options to store directories recursivly.
Note, the PATH parameter must be in quotation marks, when wildcard character '*' is provided, otherwise the expression is shell expanded.

.SH FILES
File 'dsm.sys' contains information to look up the tsm server. By default it is located at '/opt/tivoli/tsm/client/api/bin64/dsm.sys'.
It should contain at least the required options SERVERNAME, NODENAME and TCPSERVERADDRESS.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please report bugs to <http://github.com/tstibor/ltsm/issues>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2017 GSI Helmholtz Centre for Heavy Ion Research
.br
License GPLv2: GNU GPL version 2 <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH SEE ALSO
Github project at <http://github.com/tstibor/ltsm>
