.\" Copyright (c) 2017, Jörg Behrendt
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END

.TH "lhsmtool_tsm" "1" "17.March 2017" "Thomas Stibor <t.stibor@gsi.de>, Jörg Behrendt <j.behrendt@gsi.de>" "version 0.3.1"

.SH NAME
lhsmtool_tsm is a Lustre copytool for TSM storage backend
.SH SYNOPSIS
lhsmtool_tsm [OPTION]... LUSTRE_MOUNT_POINT
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS
.BR OPTIONS:
Mandatory arguments of long options are mandatory for short options
.PP
REQUIRED
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-node =\fINAME\fR
The name of the TSM node which is registered on the TSM server.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-password =\fIPASSWORD\fR
The password of the TSM node which is registered on the TSM server.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-servername =\fINAME\fR
The TSM servername to connect to. Name will be resolved to an actual ip address within the dsm.sys file.
.PP
OPTIONAL
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-archive-id =\fIID\fR
Lustre HSM can manage multiple archive entities. Archive entities are identified by a unique and persistent index (called archive-id). Default is archive-id '1'.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-fsname =\fIPATH\fR
TSM filespace used on the TSM server, default is '/'. Note the filespace name must start with character '/'.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-owner =\fINAME\fR
If in archive mode the owner's name  will be stored with the file objects onto the TSM server. By default an empty string is used.
Otherwise the name will be used to filter the queries by owner and the wildcards '*' or '?' are allowed. By default all owners will be selected.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-threads =\fICOUNT\fR
For employing multi-thread processing of HSM action items, a single producer - multiple consumer
architecture is implemented. A single producer inserts HSM action items into a queue, the multiple
consumers dequeue the items and execute the corresponding TSM actions such as archive, retrieve
and delete. The number of consumer threads is specified by this option, default is 1. Note,
it is necessary to set the same or even greater value on the TSM server with command:
update node <NODENAME> maxnummp=\fICOUNT\fR, otherwise the TSM server will reply with
error message: "This node has exceeded its maximum number of mount points" and will fail
in processing the HSM action items.
.TP
.BR \-\-abort-on-error
Abort operation of major error.
.TP
.BR \-\-daemon
Daemon mode run in background.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-dry-run
Don't run. Just show what would be done.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose =\fIerror\fR|\fIwarn\fR|\fImessage\fR|\fIinfo\fR|\fIdebug\fR
Causes ltsmc to be more verbose in printing messages. Default is \fImessage\fR.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help and exit.
.SS
.BR LUSTRE_MOUNT_POINT:
.PP
Directory where a Lustre filesystem is mounted at. This filesystem needs to have hsm functionality enabled.

.SH FILES
File 'dsm.sys' contains information to look up the tsm server. By default it is located at '/opt/tivoli/tsm/client/api/bin64/dsm.sys'.
It should contain at least the required options SERVERNAME, NODENAME and TCPSERVERADDRESS.

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to <http://github.com/tstibor/ltsm/issues>

.SH SEE ALSO
Github project at <http://github.com/tstibor/ltsm>
